Parallel coordinates plot (#3105)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/command-reference/exp/show.md

# exp show

Displays your experiments in a customizable table or

> [parallel coordinates plot](#example-parallel-coordinates-plot-pcp).

Reviewer: Here...

`--sort-order` options can change this ordering, based on any single, visible
metric or param.

> ### Parallel Coordinates Plot
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: NOTE: I just realized we'll need to remove links to this section though. I think that's best. Replace them for links to [/doc/user-guide/experiment-management/comparing-experiments#parallel-coordinates-plot](https://dvc-org-dvc-parallel-co-flymou.herokuapp.com/doc/user-guide/experiment-management/comparing-experiments#parallel-coordinates-plot) please.

When the `--pcp` option is passed, an interactive Parallel Coordinates Plot will
be generated using the data from the table.

> This plot is usefull to exploring the relationships between the metrics _and_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This plot is useful to explore the relationships between the metrics _and_
```

> When the `--pcp` option is passed, an interactive Parallel Coordinates Plot will
> be generated using the data from the table.
> 
> This plot is useful to explore the relationships between the metrics _and_
> params used in experiments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the `--pcp` option is passed, an interactive parallel coordinates plot will
be generated using the same data from the table. This plot is useful to explore the
relationships between the metrics and params used in experiments. You can reorder
the columns to make some patterns more easily visible.
```

Reviewer: + maybe link to https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parallel_coordinates ?

> ![](/img/user_guide_parallel_coordinates.gif) _Parallel Coordinates Plot_

Author: > Unfortunately, it's pretty hard to read the example images because they are so small. Not sure if there's anything we can do about it 🤔 .

@dberenbaum Do you refer to this GIF? 

For the other images, I am able to click and open a full page view (where I am able to read all letters)

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I can open them, but they look small when embedded within the page.

Author: Hacked the plotly layout a bit to increase height and font size (also updated plots to use same examples as the above tables, from example-get-started).

Line width, unfortunately, is a need sponsor feature https://github.com/plotly/plotly.js/issues/2573 😅

Reviewer 2: Font size was the real concern. Looks better now, thanks!

Reviewer: > > hard to read the example images because they are so small
>
> Do you refer to this GIF?

I do think the GIF could use a smaller example. Maybe just 2 params and a single metric ([example](https://docs.wandb.ai/ref/app/features/panels/parallel-coordinates)). I'd also reduce the number of experiments (7 max) if possible so this sample is short.

The ones in the longer example seem fine to me since you can click on them to examine them (Still preferably a few less experiments would be ideal IMO, but up to you).

Author: I am not sure about reducing the number of experiments. 

I think that the main usage is when you have many experiments and the plot helps to perceive some patterns more easily than the table.

Author: Agree on reducing to 2 params 1 metric

Author: I will wait for https://github.com/iterative/dvc/pull/7141 in order to update the plot (to perhaps remove the Experiment column). Leaving the current GIF for now, it that's ok

> 
> The interactivity of the plot allows you to extract different insights from the
> data. For example, the order of the columns can make some patterns more easily
> visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

`--sort-order` options can change this ordering, based on any single, visible
metric or param.

When the `--pcp` option is passed, an interactive

> [parallel coordinates plot](#example-parallel-coordinates-plot-pcp) will be

Reviewer: Also here...
> But maybe also add a paragraph linking to the example like `(see an [example](...))`

- `--sort-by <name>` - sort experiments by the specified metric or param
  (`name`). Only one visible column (either metric or param) can be used for
  sorting. This only affects the ordering of experiments derived from the same
  parent commit. Parent commits are always sorted chronologically. When combined

>   with the `--html` flag, `name` will be used to set the color of the lines in

Reviewer 3: This "sets the color" expression is a bit confusing. Could you clarify how the color is determined?

- `-v`, `--verbose` - displays detailed tracing information.

- `--pcp` - generates an interactive

>   [parallel coordinates plot](#example-parallel-coordinates-plot-pcp) from the

Reviewer: And here. Or remove this one -- not a big deal here.

  sorting. This only affects the ordering of experiments derived from the same
  parent commit. Parent commits are always sorted chronologically.

>   When combined with the `--pcp` flag, the values of the column `name` will be
>   used to determine the color of the lines in the Parallel Coordinates Plot.

Reviewer: Misc. copy edit
```suggestion
  > Note that the sort order will determine the color of the lines in `--pcp` mode.
```
Not sure this note is needed though, it'll be evident upon usage.

>   When combined with the `--pcp` flag, the values of the column `name` will be
>   used to determine the color of the lines in the Parallel Coordinates Plot.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

- `--md` - prints the command's output in Markdown table format.

> - `--html` - generates an interactive parallel coordinates plot from the table.

Reviewer: Can we link somewhere that explains what a PCP is perhaps? Or even better, briefly explain it here... In fact ideally we should do so as a new passage in the **Description** (that mentions this option).

Reviewer: p.s. unless we split this feature to a separate command per https://github.com/iterative/dvc/pull/6933#issuecomment-973159973

Reviewer: If we keep this feature here (included in `exp show`) we need to redefine the entire `exp show` description. It's no longer just "prints a customizable table of experiments, their metrics and parameters." PCP is a plot (not a table) and only includes metrics right? Or can it also include params

Author: The PCP contains the same data that it's in the columns of the table. To reduce noise, we always apply a filter to drop columns that have the same value for all rows. But if a `param` has different values per row, it will be shown in the plot.

Reviewer: Right, right. It has metrics and params (some filtered) I was confused. But still, the description of `exp show` needs to be a bit more general if we keep this feature here. Currently it's "prints a customizable table of experiments..." Maybe "displays your experiments in a customizable table or parallel coordinates plot"?

Reviewer: > p.s. sorry for the delay.

- `-o <folder>, --out <folder>` - destination folder of the `html` plot. By

>   default, `dvc_plots`.

Reviewer: > Question about default value in https://github.com/iterative/dvc/pull/6933#issuecomment-996068883

Reviewer: If kept here, it should state it has no effect without `--html`.

Reviewer 3: Could we have a L4 title that says `PCP options` and lists these two together?

Author: Not sure about adding a title, it might look like the other options don't have effect on the plot (but some do)

Reviewer: > should state it has no effect without (`--pcp`)

I'll update this. Resolving.

- `-v`, `--verbose` - displays detailed tracing information.

> - `--pcp` - generates an interactive Parallel Coordinates Plot from the table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `--pcp` - generates an interactive [parallel coordinates plot](#parallel-coordinates-plot) from the table.
```

> - `-o <folder>, --out <folder>` - destination folder of the `--pcp` plot. By
>   default, `dvc_plots`.

Reviewer: Per https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/3105#pullrequestreview-834458070:
```suggestion
- `-o <folder>, --out <folder>` - when used with `--pcp`, specifies a destination
  `folder` of the plot. By default its `dvc_plots`.
```

> - `--open` - opens the generated `--pcp` plot in the browser automatically. Only
>   used if `--pcp` was also passed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `--open` - when used with `--pcp`, opens the generated plot in a browser
  automatically.
```

└───────────────────────┴──────────────┴─────────┴────────────────────────┴──────────────────┘
```

> Note that in the last example, Git commits remain in chronological order. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that in the previous example, Git commits remain in chronological order. The
```

sorting only applies to experiment groups (sharing a parent commit).

> To generate an interactive parallel coordinates plot from the table:
> 
> ```dvc
> $ dvc exp show --html

Reviewer: Let's give this example a separate header?

````suggestion
## Example: Parallel coordinates plot

To generate an interactive parallel coordinates plot based on the experiments
and their parameters:

```dvc
$ dvc exp show --html
````

Reviewer: But again, definition/description of what a PCP is is still missing somewhere.

Author: Do you think that it should be a link or we should write our own explanation of PCP ?

└───────────────────────┴──────────────┴─────────┴────────────────────────┴──────────────────┘
```

Note that in this example, Git commits remain in chronological order. The
sorting only applies to experiment groups (sharing a parent commit).

## Example: Parallel coordinates plot (PCP)

To generate an interactive PCP based on the experiments and their parameters:

```dvc
$ dvc exp show --html
```

![](/img/ref_parallel_coordinates.png) _Parallel Coordinates Plot_

> Use `--sort-by` to customize the colors of the lines:

Reviewer 3: Instead of customize, we should be saying something like "the intensity of the background color is determined by the value of the column you select with `--sort-by`."

└───────────────────────┴──────────────┴─────────┴────────────────────────┴──────────────────┘
```

Note that in this example, Git commits remain in chronological order. The
sorting only applies to experiment groups (sharing a parent commit).

## Example: Parallel coordinates plot (PCP)

> To generate an interactive PCP based on the experiments and their parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To generate an interactive [PCP](#parallel-coordinates-plot) based on the experiments
and their parameters:
```

└───────────────────────┴──────────────┴─────────┴────────────────────────┴──────────────────┘
```

Note that in this example, Git commits remain in chronological order. The
sorting only applies to experiment groups (sharing a parent commit).

## Example: Parallel coordinates plot (PCP)

To generate an interactive [PCP](#parallel-coordinates-plot) based on the experiments
and their parameters:

```dvc
$ dvc exp show --all-branches --pcp
```

![](/img/ref_pcp_default.png) _Parallel Coordinates Plot_

> The color of the lines is determined by the value of the column you select with
> `--sort-by`:

Reviewer: Copy edit (committing):
```suggestion
Using `--sort-by` will reorder the plot experiments as expected, and determine
the color of the lines that represent them:
```

```dvc
$ dvc exp show --all-branches --pcp --sort-by roc_auc
```

> 
> > When `--sort-by` is not supplied, the color of the lines will be determined by
> > the `Experiment` column.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Probably unnecessary note 🙂

![](/img/ref_pcp_sortby.png) _Colorized by roc_auc_

Combine with other flags for further filtering:

```dvc

> $ dvc exp show --all-branches --pcp --sort-by roc_auc --exclude-metrics avg_prec

Reviewer: To avoid horizontal scroll when rendered (committing):
```suggestion
$ dvc exp show --all-branches --pcp --sort-by roc_auc
               --exclude-metrics avg_prec
```
